README.md, before:

# Mondial Web Client

A Web Client for a [Mondial Database](https://www.dbis.informatik.uni-goettingen.de/Mondial/)
REST API implementation (located [here](https://github.com/MondialDatabase/api)).

It is implemented in TypeScript (3.x), using the Angular framework (7.x).

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 7.2.2.

## Development Environment Setup using Docker (recommended approach)

1. Install Docker CE.
2. Change into the project directory.
3. Run `docker-compose -p mondial up -V`, which will initialize a Docker environment for the application and run `ng serve` in the Docker container.

The application will be available on `localhost:4200`. Changes to source files will automatically rebuild the application
and reload any browser tabs/windows that are running the application.

The Docker environment for the application will need to be rebuilt if `node_modules` are changed. To do so, run
`docker-compose build`, then reinitialize the environment with `docker-compose -p mondial up -V`.

Run `sh test.sh` to run the unit tests for the application in a Docker environment.
Run `sh test-e2e.sh` to run the end to end tests for the application in a Docker environment.

For other development tasks, consult the section Angular CLI Development Tools below. All other tools other than the ones listed above
can be run in the Docker environment as documented, but must be prefixed with a call to the `sh` executable. This will call
a shell script in the project directory which will pass the given command to a disposable Docker container to execute.
Example:
* `sh npm install --save my-new-dependency`
* `sh ng generate component my-component`

### IDE Integration

When developing an application with TypeScript, using an IDE can help in numerous ways. However, it requires a local environment
to be set up as well. See the Local Development Environment Setup section to get the correct environment set up. After that,
it should be a simple matters of hooking up the IDE build/run/test configurations up to the correct shell script calls.

## Local Development Environment Setup

1. Install NodeJS 10.x.
2. Change into the project directory.
3. Run `npm install` to install the application dependencies.

Consult the section Angular CLI Development Tools to discover the tools available in development of the application.


The documentation below this line is generated by Angular CLI with minor formatting changes made.

---

## Angular CLI Development Tools

### Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

### Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

### Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

### Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

### Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via [Protractor](http://www.protractortest.org/).

### Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).

Commit message:

Add notes for connecting the Web Client to an API implementation.

README.md, after:

# Mondial Web Client

A Web Client for a [Mondial Database](https://www.dbis.informatik.uni-goettingen.de/Mondial/)
REST API implementation (located [here](https://github.com/MondialDatabase/api)).

It is implemented in TypeScript (3.x), using the Angular framework (7.x).

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 7.2.2.

## Development Environment Setup using Docker (recommended approach)

1. Install Docker CE.
2. Change into the project directory.
3. Run `docker-compose -p mondial up -V`, which will initialize a Docker environment for the application and run `ng serve` in the Docker container.

The application will be available on `localhost:4200`. Changes to source files will automatically rebuild the application
and reload any browser tabs/windows that are running the application.

The Docker environment for the application will need to be rebuilt if `node_modules` are changed. To do so, run
`docker-compose build`, then reinitialize the environment with `docker-compose -p mondial up -V`.

Note that an API connection will be needed for most, if not all, Web Client functionality to work. The Web Client
expects the API to be available with the hostname `api-server` at port `8080`, with a path of `/api` e.g. `http(s)://api-server:8080/api`.

To shut down the Docker environment, run `docker-compose -p mondial down`.

Run `sh test.sh` to run the unit tests for the application in a Docker environment.
Run `sh test-e2e.sh` to run the end to end tests for the application in a Docker environment.

For other development tasks, consult the section Angular CLI Development Tools below. All other tools other than the ones listed above
can be run in the Docker environment as documented, but must be prefixed with a call to the `sh` executable. This will call
a shell script in the project directory which will pass the given command to a disposable Docker container to execute.
Example:
* `sh npm install --save my-new-dependency`
* `sh ng generate component my-component`

### IDE Integration

When developing an application with TypeScript, using an IDE can help in numerous ways. However, it requires a local environment
to be set up as well. See the Local Development Environment Setup section to get the correct environment set up. After that,
it should be a simple matters of hooking up the IDE build/run/test configurations up to the correct shell script calls.

## Local Development Environment Setup

1. Install NodeJS 10.x.
2. Change into the project directory.
3. Run `npm install` to install the application dependencies.

Consult the section Angular CLI Development Tools to discover the tools available in development of the application.


The documentation below this line is generated by Angular CLI with minor formatting changes made.

---

## Angular CLI Development Tools

### Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

### Code scaffolding

Run `ng generate component component-name` to generate a new component. You can also use `ng generate directive|pipe|service|class|guard|interface|enum|module`.

### Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

### Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

### Running end-to-end tests

Run `ng e2e` to execute the end-to-end tests via [Protractor](http://www.protractortest.org/).

### Further help

To get more help on the Angular CLI use `ng help` or go check out the [Angular CLI README](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/blob/master/README.md).
